>> Kevin Powell: Next up, we wanna start
talking about layout a little bit.
And I mentioned that I wanna start doing
it from sort of a big picture point of
view and
then working our way down a little bit.
So for me, a big picture point of view
is creating some sort of wrapper or
container.
I'm gonna talk about the naming
of them in a second, but
I'm just gonna full screen this right now.
This we can see the content right now is
stretching from one side of the page to
the other,
which we definitely don't wanna happen.
In most designs you get, there'll
always be some sort of limitation on
the total width of things, and so this is
a very common design pattern to end up.
I'll just put that here.
To have your containers or your wrappers,
I didn't put any in when I
was going through things.
Again, if you did already, that's awesome.
But all the way up at the top here,
where I have my site-header,
I do wanna limit the width of those.
So in the site-header,
I could just come in.
There's two ways of doing this.
If you did it like I did,
where you did everything already,
you can actually select within VS Code,
everything there.
If you're on Windows,
it'd be Ctrl + Shift key, you're on Mac,
CMD + Shift key, and you hit wrap, and
it gives you a wrap with emit option.
And once you've select that, I'm just
gonna push Enter or Return on my keyboard.
And then I can do .wrapper and
hit Enter, and it wraps the whole thing.
So my starting wrapper is there and
the ending one is there.
If you don't like using that,
we can just manually do it,
I'll probably do that for
the next sections.
But we do wanna have this, or
as I keep saying, wrapper or container,
because the really common name for
these is container.
The common but not as common is wrapper.
I used to use container all the time.
Every time I did it,
it was just the name I liked, and
wrapper was used as well,
but I like container.
And then we got container queries in CSS,
and I find having a container query and
then having a class that's container that
has nothing to do with container queries.
Potentially confusing.
So that's why I switched and
started calling them wrapper.
But again, the naming convention for
those is completely up to you.
So inside my hero, once again, we can come
in and I'm just gonna do it this way.
Instead, I can do a wrapper,
grab that closing div, and
just drag it down to where I want it
to go instead of using the shortcut.
It doesn't really matter how you go
through, whether you're using the shortcut
to wrap things or we're doing it this way,
.wrapper, hit Tab, grab that one here.
It's a little bit hard when you're
dragging to know where you want it to end,
you're just looking for
those closed sections.
This is also specific to this design,
just before we go through it,
because in this design, we have
these alternating background colors.
If you don't have alternating background
colors like this, then you might be able
to get away with one single one and
put all the sections inside of it.
So it really depends project to project on
how you're gonna have to organize this.
But because we do have the alternating
background colors where we need
the background to stretch the whole size,
this is the easy way to do it.
There are some interesting CSS tricks
where you could actually get background
colors to bleed outside of wrappers,
but I don't wanna get into doing that.
It's kind of weird and you might come
across it in the future, actually.
And people might not understand
what's actually happening, or
you won't understand your own code cuz
it's kind of strange how it works.
So I like keeping things simple.
There's also ways of doing this with grid.
We have a grid set on your body and then
the contents being placed inside of it.
It's a pattern that I actually kind of
like, but on a project of this size,
I'd like just coming in and
making sure I have these,
even if it's a little bit tedious
to add them after the fact.
I'm not gonna put one in my footer.
You could put one, but
our content is so small.
Maybe I'll regret it and
I'll have to add one later, but
I think I'm gonna leave mine like that for
now.
And then we can come up to my styles and
we need to decide where
we're gonna put it.
And if you're using layers,
I'm just gonna collapse the ones we have,
we created our reset, our base.
We have utilities and
you have to decide where you think
something like wrapper should go.
I personally like having a layout.
The idea of putting it in the base makes
sense to me just cuz it is something
that's sort of generic general.
So if you're throwing it in there,
I think it's fine.
Oops, I did layout.
I do this all the time, and then can't
figure out why my CSS is broken.
It's layer layout.
The reason I like doing it this way,
my layout classes are gonna
be very generic ones.
It's not gonna be a specific layout for,
say, the bento grid, we do the bento grid.
No, I'll probably make that a component.
But I just like separating away from the
base just because it sort of gives me more
things to organize things in, and it
makes it easier for me to find something.
I know if it's very generic,
it's styling my element selectors,
it's probably in the base.
If it has to do with layout in any way or
generic layout, it's in my layout one.
Again, if it's a utility,
it goes in my utilities and so on.
But the way I'm setting up my
layers is definitely not the way
you necessarily have to set them up,
I just wanna make that really clear.
.wrapper or .container, and we have to
decide how we're going to do this as well,
because as I mentioned, we have three
different ones, right, actually better.
Let's go back to the course website for a
second, just because here I took a picture
with some lines on it to show us
that we have variations of it.
So we have to decide how we're gonna
create the variations of it and
which one ideally.
If you do have variations,
you probably have a default one, and
then the variations based
off of the default one.
So you have to decide
which one the default is.
I tend to choose sort of with my colors,
where I like having a middle and
then things that get lighter and darker,
or font sizes that go up and down.
I tend to do the same
thing with my layouts,
where I choose the middle
one as sort of the default.
Again, it depends on the project, but
it could be the most commonly used one as
well, again, looking across all the pages.
So it depends project to project
a little bit on that front, but
I'm gonna choose this top one
as my default wrapper, and
then we can modify them for
these two that are right here.
The other fun part is figuring out
how big it should actually be,
cuz there is a bit of a problem
in getting sizes from Figma.
So I can just click into these and
I can see it.
And again, my UI is super small,
but on the right side,
you should see what the actual
width is of that element.
And so that sort of can inform
you on what the size is gonna be,
but we'll see what the problem
with doing that is.
So in this case,
I'm gonna do a max-width of 1130,
whoops, that's Num Lock is off, 1130,
which is the size from the Figma.
That's the width, it might be 31 or
something, I'm gonna round it off a bit.
If we do that, we need a margin, and
I'm gonna use the logical property.
I talked a little bit about it before,
but a margin-inline of auto.
The nice thing with margin-inline,
it's the inline axis,
so it's your left to right axis, and it's
not gonna touch the top and bottom ones.
Sometimes you'll see just
a regular margin: 0 auto,
just cuz we don't wanna touch the top and
bottom ones.
So we're just saying it's 0.
It was already 0.
And potentially, you could run into
a time where you have a utility or
something else where you actually
need to add margin on one of them.
And then if you add a margin shorthand,
it overwrites this, it causes problems.
So I only want a margin on the left and
right, so I like doing the margin-inline.
It's a nice quality of life
thing I find as a developer.
And the last thing is,
at small screen sizes,
it's still stuck to the side of the page,
which I don't want it to be stuck to.
So I would generally
look at the Figma file.
Go over to the mobile version of it, and
just get the space that's
coming between these.
Again, generally, you could either do
math, get the width of the big one,
get the width of the small one.
You could draw a box, sometimes
the design will actually be provided,
but I'll just let you know this time.
And I'm gonna do padding-inline, cuz
again, I want this only on the left and
the right.
It's 16 pixels, I'm gonna 1rem.
If you prefer pixels,
you can definitely do 16 pixels,
it's not gonna cause a big
issue one way or the other.
I've just gotten so accustomed to
using rem, I use them for everything.
But if you prefer pixels for
spacing and other things like that,
when people zoom in out,
the pixel gets modified anyway.
So the difference between the two in
this case is gonna be very, very small.
There's a few edge cases where you
might see a few differences, but
that should work.
We can see now I have a bit of
space around the sides, and
if I did this properly,
when I go larger, here we go.
We're holding your content.
We're wrapping our content,
we're preventing it from getting too big.
So that's off to a decent start.
Nothing amazing, but a nice simple win.
I wanna talk about the problem
with the max-width here.
This max-width is based on
exactly the max-width that I
grabbed from the Figma file.
When I came to here and
I got the width of this area,
which if I double-click enough,
there we go, that'd be 1130 pixels wide.
The problem now is when I
added this padding-inline,
it's actually because we did
the box sizing change in our reset.
That 1130 is 16 pixels
smaller on each side now,
we've actually reduced that total space.
This is one of the problems in
getting sizes out of Figma.
If it's a width or a max-width that
you're getting from something,
you do have to be careful about the width
of the element plus how the padding is
interacting with it.
In a lot of cases,
you're gonna be completely fine.
If it's an isolated component,
you probably not even getting
the width of it anyway.
But in a case like this, [LAUGH] this is
something I've recently started doing,
is actually saying that the box-sizing
of this one thing is content-box.
And resetting this one thing
back to what the default was.
I don't do this on personal projects or
things that aren't based
specifically on a Figm file, but
I've run into enough things in
Figma where I grab the size of it.
And then when I get to here,
my line breaks are all messed up, or
the width isn't matching exactly
what I thought it would be.
And it's just because of the padding
reducing the actual max-width,
the content is a little bit narrow.
And with 1rem, you won't see it too much,
but if you go up to 2, or
you have bigger padding on the sides,
you see it more and more.
There's definitely other
ways of accomplishing this.
You can actually do a calc here to bring
the padding back into the total size.
If you prefer that, you could definitely
do it with that approach, but
I don't know.
This works and it's simple,
so I tend to do that.
If you do it, and this is something
you're gonna be working on,
you might wanna put a comment here
about why you're actually doing it,
cuz it might be kinda weird to see it.
This is not conventional, you will
not see a lot of people doing this.
But when working with Figma files,
every now and then,
I found that it can actually
be useful to do it.
But yeah, just really fast,
if you'd prefer the other one,
you could do a calc, and it's + 2rem,
or the pixel value, or whatever.
You do need to double whatever this
value is because it's 16 on each side or
1rem on each side.
So it's either something like that or
something like this,
you can choose which one
you'd prefer to use.
I don't know, the math here,
I don't think we really need it, but
if you prefer that approach,
there's no problems with it at all.
>> Kevin Powell: There's another way we
could actually do this without doing it
this way, that just uses a width and
uses a min function, and
you could definitely go
down that route as well.
I like it, but just for simplicity,
this works really well.
I think this type of approach
is a nice way to go, but
it does leave us with the question of
how we can make modifiers from here.
And so
one option is we have our wrapper-wide.
This would be the demo way of doing it,
wide.
And then you have a wrapper--narrow,
let's say, something like that.
Oops, this is probably the most
common way people create modifiers.
If you haven't seen Bem before and you're
wondering why I'm doing double hyphen,
the Bem approach, the double hyphen,
is just to say that we're taking this and
then making a slight change or
tweak to it.
So we change the max-width
either to be bigger or smaller.
This is probably the most common
way that I see people do things.
So if this is how you prefer working,
100% go that way.
I'm gonna offer up an alternative and I'll
let you decide which one you like better.
And the alternative is to
instead use the data attribute,
which looks kind of weird if you've never
seen it before, equals, let's say, y.
And doing it that way,
and people will be like,
why would you do a modifier
with a data attribute?
It looks kinda strange,
it's not something we're used to seeing.
I agree,
it does raise the specificity as well,
cuz now we have a class selector,
plus we have an attribute selector.
With the wrapper,
it's maybe not the type of thing where
you'd actually run into an issue with it.
But with other things that have modifiers,
like buttons, where you
might actually be hooking into it with
JavaScript to change the button, state.
Or change the way the button looks,
or other things, data attributes or
JavaScript are the best.
And they're easier to deal with with
classes, cuz sometimes you may have three
classes, and then having to remove one
of them or change only one of those.
If you have data attributes,
it's just a lot easier to work with.
And depending on what you think, but let's
say this two column area needs to be wide.
So you can have wrapper wrapper--wide,
like that, which completely fine.
If I did it with data attributes,
I'm just gonna do
it on multiple lines, and
say, data-width = wide.
I just find it's very
clear what's happening.
So I have a wrapper and
my wrapper has a width of wide.
Again, it comes really down
to personal preference.
I know a lot of people don't like this,
or it makes them feel icky or
strange, probably cuz it's different.
If that's the case, I would actually
recommend that you try doing it for
this project just because
it's something different.
And whenever you come across different
things that feel different or strange or
that you shouldn't do them, it's worth
experimenting with it and trying it.
And then at the end, you'll be like,
no, I still hate it, and that's fine.
You just go back to using
the regular modifiers after.
If you really don't wanna use this and
you wanna use modifiers,
that's completely fine.
There is one last advantage to
the data attributes, though,
it allows us to use nesting.
So I could do like this instead,
with an ampersand, and
we used a little bit of nesting
with our media query before.
So let's just come here,
max-width is, there we go.
I think this one is 1330.
>> Kevin Powell: So, we could do
it this way with the ampersand.
And when you're using nesting in CSS,
the ampersand is just a placeholder for
the initial selector on the outside.
So this would just be wrapper.data-width
= wide, and this would work.
If you're using a preprocessor or
a post-processor, something like Sass or
post CSS, their nesting would allow
you to do this, and that would work.
In native CSS, this doesn't work.
You can't put this here
because the ampersand
in native CSS is actually a live selector.
It's a placeholder, but
it's not getting compiled to anything.
So writing it this way would actually be
the same thing as writing it like this.
And that's just gibberish,
it doesn't mean anything at all,
cuz the browser doesn't know what this is,
basically, the --wide.
So one of the reasons I do like the data
attributes as well is because I can
nest them in this way.
And again, that's the equivalent
of not nesting it, and
this is the placeholder for
my .wrapper there.
One thing people don't like with
the ampersand usually comes into
the readability of it's a bit weird.
You do get used to it, and because this
is part of native CSS, if we come and
take a look at that area
where I have the wide one,
which I think is this
area in your DevTools.
It wasn't that one,
I'll make this bigger in a second.
I think I screwed up something.
No, it's probably the section or this one.
>> Kevin Powell: I didn't save my file.
>> Kevin Powell: Wrapper,
there's the wide one.
Okay, so if I make this a bit bigger,
you can actually see that the selector
here is exactly the same
selector I'm getting.
In the days of preprocessors,
the compiled CSS would be different.
You wouldn't be able to find
that selector directly,
it would change when it compiled.
Here you can see the line of
code that it's written on, and
you can see exactly what the selector is.
So it's a little bit up to you.
Again, if you don't like nesting,
you don't have to nest it.
If you don't like the data
attribute on here,
you don't have to use the data attribute.
But for me, I'm really partial to this,
and we're gonna see other use cases of
creating modifiers like this that might
convince you that it's not a bad idea.
>> Speaker 2: Hey, Kevin, since
padding is being used with a rem unit,
when a person has a larger default browser
font, will they have a larger padding?
And is that a problem?
>> Kevin Powell: Yes, so
they would have a larger padding.
In general, because I use rem everywhere,
everything's scaling up.
And so if they've boosted things enough, I
sort of want all of that scaling to happen
together, which is why I tend
to use rem for a lot of things.
Not so much for
the spacing down the sides, but
say you're doing it with
a gutter on a grid.
If all of a sudden all of the grid
stuff is getting bigger, but
the gap is still only 16 pixels, they're
almost gonna look like they're touching.
Whereas, if that gap is
increasing in size as well,
it just creates a bit
more of a consistency.
But it's definitely also one of those
things that you probably wanna test and
just see what actually happens.
And there's definitely arguments for both
sides on that, and I've seen both, and
they're both good.
So I think, yeah, it's a hard one
to have a definitive answer for.